p8105_hw1_sw3866
================
Siyan Wen
2023-09-19

## Problem 1

``` r
#Load the library
library(moderndive)
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching core tidyverse packages ──────────────────────── tidyverse 2.0.0 ──
    ## ✔ dplyr     1.1.3     ✔ readr     2.1.4
    ## ✔ forcats   1.0.0     ✔ stringr   1.5.0
    ## ✔ ggplot2   3.4.3     ✔ tibble    3.2.1
    ## ✔ lubridate 1.9.2     ✔ tidyr     1.3.0
    ## ✔ purrr     1.0.2     
    ## ── Conflicts ────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## ✖ dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## ✖ dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()
    ## ℹ Use the conflicted package (<http://conflicted.r-lib.org/>) to force all conflicts to become errors

``` r
#Load the dataset
data("early_january_weather")
#Accessing data
help("early_january_weather")
```

This dataset contains hourly meterological data for LGA,JFK and EWR in
early January 2013. In total, it has 15 variables including origin,
year, month, day, hour, temp, dewp,humid, wind_dir, wind_speed,
wind_gust, precip, pressure, visib and time_hour. The size of this
dataset is 358 rows and 15 columns.The mean temperature of this dataset
is 39.5821229 °F.

``` r
## Scatterplot of Temperature and Humidity over time in hours.
ggplot(early_january_weather,aes(x=time_hour,y=temp,color = humid))+geom_point()
```

![](p8105_hw1_sw3866_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-2-1.png)<!-- --> The
temperature gradually increased in the range of approximately 25 to 55
degrees Fahrenheit from January 1st to mid-January. Additionally, the
humidity fluctuated from January 1st to January 12th and has significant
increase from January 12th to the 14th for around two days.

``` r
##Export the scatterplot
ggsave("scatterplot.pdf")
```

    ## Saving 7 x 5 in image

## Problem 2

``` r
#Create a data frame
df<-tibble(random_sample=rnorm(n = 10, mean = 0, sd = 1),
logical=random_sample>0,
charactor=c("a","b","c","a","b","c","a","b","c","a"),
factor=factor(x=charactor,labels=c("large","small","medium")))
```

``` r
# Use pull function
col_1=pull(df,var=random_sample)
col_2=pull(df,var=logical)
col_3=pull(df,var=charactor)
col_4=pull(df,var=factor)
```

``` r
# Take the mean of each variable in the dataset
mean(col_1)
```

    ## [1] -0.1951047

``` r
mean(col_2)
```

    ## [1] 0.4

``` r
mean(col_3)
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(col_3): argument is not numeric or logical: returning
    ## NA

    ## [1] NA

``` r
mean(col_4)
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(col_4): argument is not numeric or logical: returning
    ## NA

    ## [1] NA

The “mean” function worked for numeric or logical variables. Column 1 is
numeric variable and column 2 is logical variable. So, the “mean”
function worked for column 1 and column 2. However, the “mean function
did not worked for character and factor variables. So, it did not works
for column 3 or column 4 because they are either character or factor
variable.

``` r
#the mean of each variable in dataset using as.numeric
mean(as.numeric(col_1))
mean(as.numeric(col_2))
mean(as.numeric(col_3))
mean(as.numeric(col_4))
```

After using the “as.numeric” function, the “mean” function worked for
column 1,2 and 4,but it still did not worked for column 3. The
“as.numeric”function is used to convert a character/factor vector into a
numeric vector. However,it cannot convert a character vector into a
numeric vector when all the elements inside that character vector are
letters. It can only convert factor vector that have been treated as
three different levels into numeric vector. Three different levels have
been convert into numerical values as 1, 2 and 3 under the
“as.numeric”function. Therefore, the “mean” function worked for column 4
this time.
